Add description of perun protocols (#63)
hyperledger-labs/perun-doc: source/concepts/protocols.rst

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Hyperledger
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

*********
Protocols
*********

Perun state channel protocols are a set of protocols for setting up a state
channels, doing off-chain transactions on these channels and settling them.

The life cycle of a state channel consists of 4 phases:

1. **Open**: Setup up the channel and deposit funds as per the initial balance.
2. **Transact**: Do off-chain transactions.
3. **Finalize**: Agree on the final state of the channel.
4. **Settle**: Reallocate the funds as per the final balance and withdraw them.

Types of state channels
=======================

Perun protocols support three types of channels:

1. Ledger channel.
2. Sub-channel.
3. Virtual channel.

> Life cycle for each of these channels consist of the same phases described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The life cycle for each of these channels consists of the same phases described
```

Author: Updated.

Virtual channel
---------------

   - Formed between two participants who do not have a ledger channel
     established between them, but each of them has a ledger
     channel established with a common intermediary.
   - Funds are locked in the two ledger channels that the participants have
     with the common intermediary. Hence, a virtual channel can be setup
     without any interaction with the blockchain.
   - Virtual channel is settled,

     - by an off-chain update on each of the two parent ledger channels, if
       both the participants agree on the final state of the virtual channel.
     - by registering a dispute on the blockchain and resolving it, otherwise.
       In this case, either one or both of the parent channels and all
       other sub-channels, virtual channels opened using them will also be
       finalized on the blockchain.

.. note:

   From the above descriptions, it can be seen that sub-channels and virtual
   channels require **zero on-chain** interactions under normal circumstances.
   On-chain interactions are required only when the participants do not agree on
   the state to be settled.

> **Channel app**:

Reviewer: This is not at the correct structure level. It looks like this only relates to virtual channels.
```suggestion
Channel app
=========
```

Author: Updated.

Author: I have put it at the same level of "Types of channels"

channel, doing off-chain transactions on these channels and settling them.

The life cycle of a state channel consists of 4 phases:

1. **Open phase**: Setup up the channel and deposit funds.
2. **Transact phase**: Do off-chain transactions.
3. **Register phase**: Agree on what state should be settled.
4. **Settle phase**: Settle the channel and withdraw funds.

Types of state channels
=======================

Perun protocols support three types of channels.

1. Ledger channel.
2. Sub-channel.
3. Virtual channel.

Life cycle for each of these channels consist of the same four phases described
above. The difference is where the funds are deposited during the open phase
and how they are settled. This layer, where funds will be deposited / channels
will be settled will be referred to ``parent layer`` in the further
discussions.

Ledger channel
--------------

   - Formed between any two parties having sufficient funds in their on-chain
     accounts.
   - The funds are directly deposited into the smart contracts on the blockchain.
   - Allows any number of off-chain transactions between the participants.
   - The channel must settled on the blockchain.

> Sub channel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sub-channel
```
consistent naming; it was called "sub-channel" above...

-----------

   - Formed between participants who have a ledger channel established between
     them.
   - Funds are locked on the ledger channel. Hence no on-chain interaction

>      required to setup a channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     required to setup a sub-channel.
```

>    - Channel is settled,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Sub-Channel is settled,
```

>      - By unlocking the funds from the ledger channel, if both parties agree on
>        the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions.
>      - By settling the parent channel on the blockchain, otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - by unlocking the funds from the ledger channel, if both parties agree on
       the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions; or
     - by settling the parent channel on the blockchain, otherwise.
```

       In this case, the parent channel and all other sub-channels opened using
       the parent channel will also be settled.

Virtual channel
---------------

   - Formed between two participants who do not have a ledger channel

>      established between them, but separately each of them have a ledger
>      channel established with an intermediary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     established between them, but each of them has a ledger
     channel established with a common intermediary.
```

   - Funds are locked in the two ledger channels that the participants have
     with the intermediary. Hence, no on-chain interaction required.
   - Channel is settled,

>      - By unlocking the funds from the two ledger channel, if both parties
>        agree on the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions.
>      - By settling the either one or two (depending on the scenario)
>        parent channel on the blockchain, otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - by unlocking the funds from the two ledger channel, if both parties
       agree on the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions; or
     - by settling either one or both (depending on the scenario)
       parent channels on the blockchain, otherwise.
```

       In this case, the parent channels and all other sub-channels, virtual
       channels opened using the parent channel will also be settled.

.. note:

   From the above descriptions, it can be seen that sub-channels and virtual
   channels require **zero on-chain** interactions under normal circumstances.

>    On-chain interactions are required only when they do not agree on which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   On-chain interactions are required only when the participants do not agree on which
```

   state should be settled.

> In the next section, protocols for corresponding to each of the four phases in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next section, protocols for each of the four phases in
```

the life cycle of a state channel are described.

Phases of a state channel
=========================

Open phase
----------

In this phase, the channel is set up for off-chain transactions. Channel
opening consists of two phases:

1. Channel Proposal
2. Funding

The channel proposal protocol is same for all for three types of channels.
However, the ``parent layer`` used for funding and the funding protocol are

> different.
> 
> The ``parent layer`` in case of
> 
> 1. Ledger channel is blockchain.
> 2. Sub-channel is ledger channel between the same participants.
> 3. Virtual channel is two ledger channels: between each of the channel
>    participants and a common intermediary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
different:

1. for ledger channels it is the blockchain,
2. for sub-channels it is the ledger channel between the same participants, and
3. for virtual channels the ``parent layer`` consists of the two ledger channels between each of the channel
   participants and a common intermediary.
```
```

Reviewer 2: Regarding virtual channels: what about recursion, i.e. is it possible to construct a virtual channel on top of two virtual channels with a common intermediary, which in turn are based on a pair of ledger channels each?

Author: It is possible in principle (as per the description in the papers). But, with the current implementation it is not. Because, a virtual channel cannot hold locked funds.

@matthiasgeihs Your thoughts on this ?

> The funding protocol for each of type of channel are described in detail in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The funding protocol for each type of channel is described in detail in
```

the ``Funding protocols`` section.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/open_generic.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

Transact phase
--------------

In this phase, any participant can initiate an off-chain transaction. The
participants can make as many off-chain transactions as they want.

The protocols for off-chain transactions is same for all three types of
channels. Even in case of virtual channels, no interaction is required with the
intermediary for doing off-chain transactions.

The protocol itself does not have any inherent speed limitations. It is limited

> only by the
> 
> 1. Speeds at which the participants can make signatures
> 2. Speed of communication channels used for exchanging states & signatures.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
only by 

1. the speeds at which the participants can make signatures, and
2. the peed of communication channels used for exchanging states & signatures.
```

If a participant knows an update to be proposed is the final off-chain
transaction, then it should be marked as ``final``. This is not a mandatory part.
If it is not done, then a separate off-chain transaction that marks the latest
off-chain state as final will be sent in the next phase.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/transact_generic.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

Register phase
--------------

In this phase, the state of the channel which should be settled will be agreed
upon. The balances locked in the parent layer will be redistributed to the
participants as per the balances in the settled state.

This phase consists of three sub-phases:

1. Finalize
2. Register dispute on-chain
3. Progress channel on-chain

1. Finalize
```````````

In this sub-phase, the protocol tries to create an agreement on the state to be
settled without any on-chain transactions. If it succeeds, then the channel
direclty progresses to the settle phase. If not, then it transitions to the
next sub-phase. The protocol is same for all three types of channels.

If the latest off-chain state was marked as ``final`` already in the transact

> phase, it implies both the participants have agreed it to be state that needs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phase, it implies both the participants have agreed it to be the state that needs
```

2. Sub-channel: The state of the parent channel, all the sub-channels and
   virtual channels of the parent channel must be collected and registered on
   the blockchain.

3. Virtual channel: The state of the parent channel between the participant who
   initiated channel settlement and the intermediary, all the sub-channels and
   virtual channels of this parent channel must be collected and registered on
   the blockchain.

   Once intermediary is notified that one of the parent channels holding funds
   for the virtual channel is registered on-chain, the intermediary will try to
   finalize the state of the sub-channel between the intermediary and the other
   channel participant (who did not initiate settlement) through an off-chain
   transaction. If is succeeds, then that sub-channel will be closed. If not,
   then the ledger channel backing that sub-channel, along with all its
   sub-channels will be registered on the blockchain.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/register_generic_register.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

After the challenge duration for register expires, if the channel has

    1. ``No app``, then this state can be settled.

>     2. ``An app``, the channel transitions to force-execution sub-phase.

Reviewer 2: consistent markup for  phases and sub-phases / steps throughout this doc would ease reading. E.g., above there was 
> it transitions to ``Settle phase``.
in contrast to "force-execution" here, which I assume to be also the name of a particular phase,

Author: I have used ``settle phase`` style mark up consistently in all places.
Changes added in 7aea479.

3. Progress the channel state on the blockhain
``````````````````````````````````````````````

This is a special sub-phase of register, relevant only for channels that have
an app.

> In this sub-phase, the pariticipants can update unanimously (using only their
> signatures) can update the state of the channel after the challenge duration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this sub-phase, the participants can unanimously update (using only their
signatures) the state of the channel after the challenge duration
```

for register has expired, but before the challenge duration for on-chain

> progression expires. Each time the update is proposed on-chain, app contract
> validates it and it it is valid, the state is updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
progression expires. Each time the update is proposed on-chain, the app contract
validates it and if it is valid, the state is updated.
```

During each update, the challenge duration for on-chain progression is

> restarted. The pariticipants can make any number of on-chain progressions on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
restarted. The participants can make any number of on-chain progressions on
```

the blockchain, before the the challenge duration expires. Once it expires, the
channel progresses to the settle phase.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/register_generic_progress.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

.. note::

    While the register phase is distinct in the protocol descriptions, it is up
    to the imlementations to expose this phase to the user. For instance, in
    `go-perun` implementation of these protocols, APIs for ``on-chain
    progression`` and ``settle`` are exposed. Register is called implicitly by
    both of these APIs.

Settle phase
------------

In the settle phase, the state of the channel is concluded on the parent layer
and the funds are withdrawn.

1. For finalized sub-channels & virtual channels
````````````````````````````````````````````````
If a channel is a sub-channel or ledger channel and the state to be settled was

> finalized through off-chain transactions, then it could funds could be directly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
finalized through off-chain transactions, then funds could be directly
```

withdrawn by making an update to the parent layer. In case of

1. Sub-channel: `parent layer` is the ledger channel between the particiants.
2. Virtual channel: `parent layer` is the two ledger channels, one between each
   of the pariticipants and the intermediary.

> The withdrawal protocol for sub-channel and virtual channel each of type of
> channel are described in detail in the ``Withdrawal protocols for sub-channels
> and virtual channels`` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The withdrawal protocol for sub-channel and virtual channel
are described in detail in the ``Withdrawal protocols for sub-channels
and virtual channels`` section.
```
is it withdrawal protocol or protocols? --> should be consistent...

Author: Withdrawal protocols. I have updated it.

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Hyperledger
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

*********
Protocols
*********

Perun state channel protocols are a set of protocols for setting up a state
channels, doing off-chain transactions on these channels and settling them.

The life cycle of a state channel consists of 4 phases:

> 1. **Open phase**: Setup up the channel and deposit funds.

Author: Updated.

2. **Transact phase**: Do off-chain transactions.
3. **Register phase**: Agree on what state should be settled.

> 4. **Settle phase**: Settle the channel and withdraw funds.

Reviewer: Thought about it another time. An alternative closer to your original proposal is:

2. Transact: Off-chain transactions. (without off-chain finalization)
3. Finalize: Finalize off-chain, on dispute, finalize on-chain. If app channel, perform on-chain progression. Conclude the channel.
4. Withdraw: Withdraw the funds.

> 4. **Settle phase**: Settle the channel and withdraw funds.

Author: `Finalize` sounds more descriptive than `Register`. Hence, I have accepted it and revised the content and diagrams accordingly. I also like the idea to remove "off-chain finalization" from Transact phase.

However, I would still like to call the last phase as `Settle` instead of `Withdraw`, because this phase involves two steps: Conclude and Withdraw. You can see the updated content in the section on  `Settle` phase for more details.

Types of state channels
=======================

> Perun protocols support three types of channels:

Author: Currently, I think both ledger channels and sub-channels can have an app. In future, even virtual channels will have an app.

So, as discussed in the call, I have added a description on what it means for a channel to have an app.

1. Ledger channel.
2. Sub-channel.
3. Virtual channel.

> Life cycle for each of these channels consist of the same four phases described

Author: Updated.

above. The differences are in how the channels are funded during the ``open
phase`` and how the funds are withdrawn during the ``settle phase``. This
layer, where funds will be deposited / channels will be settled, will be
referred to as ``parent layer`` in the further discussions.

Ledger channel
--------------

   - Formed between any two parties having sufficient funds in their on-chain
     accounts.
   - The funds are directly deposited into the smart contracts on the
     blockchain.
   - Allows any number of off-chain transactions between the participants.

>    - The channel must settled on the blockchain.

Author: Updated.

     with the intermediary. Hence, no on-chain interaction required.
   - Channel is settled,

     - by unlocking the funds from the two ledger channel, if both parties
       agree on the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions;
       or
     - by settling either one or both (depending on the scenario) parent
       channels on the blockchain, otherwise. In this case, the parent channels
       and all other sub-channels, virtual channels opened using the parent
       channel will also be settled on the blockhain.

.. note:

   From the above descriptions, it can be seen that sub-channels and virtual
   channels require **zero on-chain** interactions under normal circumstances.
   On-chain interactions are required only when the participants do not agree on
   the state to be settled.

In the next section, protocols for each of the four phases in
the life cycle of a state channel are described.

Phases of a state channel
=========================

Open phase
----------

In this phase, the channel is set up for off-chain transactions. Channel
opening consists of two phases:

1. Channel Proposal
2. Funding

> The channel proposal protocol is same for all for three types of channels.

Author: Updated.

However, the ``parent layer`` used for funding and the funding protocol are
different:

1. for ledger channels it is the blockchain,
2. for sub-channels it is the ledger channel between the same participants, and
3. for virtual channels the ``parent layer`` consists of the two ledger
   channels between each of the channel participants and a common intermediary.

The funding protocols for each type of channel are described in the
:ref:`funding_and_withdrawal_protocols` section.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/open_generic.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   protocols_funding_withdrawal

Transact phase
--------------

In this phase, any participant can initiate an off-chain transaction. The
participants can make as many off-chain transactions as they want.

The protocols for off-chain transactions is same for all three types of

> channels. Even in case of virtual channels, no interaction is required with the

Author: Updated.

intermediary for doing off-chain transactions.

The protocol itself does not have any inherent speed limitations. Speed is
limited only by

1. the speeds at which the participants can make signatures, and
2. the speed of communication channels used for exchanging states & signatures.

> If a participant knows an update to be proposed is the final off-chain

Author: Yes, I have removed this from Transact phase.

transaction, then it should be marked as ``final``. This is not a mandatory
part. If it is not done, then a separate off-chain transaction that marks the

> latest off-chain state as final will be sent in the next phase.

Author: As discussed, I have now described the two ways of finalizing a channel: `off-chain` and `on-chain`. The force update step is then described as an optional step (applicable only when the channel has an app) of the `on-chain` method.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/transact_generic.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

> Register phase

Author: I have re-organized in a different way as suggested in your [previous comment](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/perun-doc/pull/63/files?short_path=f2d700f#r687203339).
Should we have it this way ?

--------------

> In this phase, the state of the channel which should be settled will be agreed

Author: Yes, I have renamed it.

upon. The balances locked in the parent layer will be redistributed to the
participants as per the balances in the settled state.

This phase consists of three sub-phases:

1. Finalize
2. Register dispute on-chain

> 3. Progress channel on-chain

Author: See this [comment](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/perun-doc/pull/63/files?short_path=f2d700f#r688597678).

> 1. Finalize

Author: Updated.

```````````

In this sub-phase, the protocol tries to create an agreement on the state to be
settled without any on-chain transactions. If it succeeds, then the channel
direclty progresses to the ``settle phase``. If not, then it transitions to the
next sub-phase. This protocol is same for all three types of channels.

If the latest off-chain state was marked as ``final`` already in the transact
phase, it implies both the participants have agreed it to be the state to be
settled. If it was not, another another off-chain transaction is sent, on behalf
of the participant who initiated the channel settlement, marking the latest
off-chain state as ``final``. It is up to the other participant to accept or
reject or ignore it.

If accepted, channel transitions to ``settle phase``, if not it transitions to
the next sub-phase.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/register_generic_finalize.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

2. Register dispute on-chain
````````````````````````````

In this sub-phase, the protocol creates an agreement on the state to be
settled by registering a dispute with the parent layer and resolving it.

> The parent layer for registering dispute is always the blockchain. In case of

Author: As discussed in the call,  For now, we can keep the description this way.
Later, when we figure out how to resolve dispute off-chain, we could update this.

1. Ledger channel: The state of the channel, all its sub-channels and virtual
   channels must be collected and registered on the blockchain.

2. Sub-channel: The state of the parent channel, all the sub-channels and
   virtual channels of the parent channel must be collected and registered on
   the blockchain.

3. Virtual channel: The state of the parent channel between the participant who
   initiated channel settlement and the intermediary, all the sub-channels and
   virtual channels of this parent channel must be collected and registered on
   the blockchain.

   Once the common intermediary is notified that one of the parent channels
   holding funds for the virtual channel has been registered on-chain for

>    dispute resolution, the intermediary will try to finalize the state of the

Reviewer: Currently, the intermediary does not immediately try to finalize the state with the other participant. It simply stores the newest virtual channel state, so that it can potentially register and conclude the channel tree with the other participant.

Author: Yes, I think what I have described is incorrect. I got clarified when I was thinking through, which I have also added in this [comment](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/perun-proposals/pull/11#issuecomment-898348475) in proposals repository for watcher design.

Updated the description.

   virtual channel with the other channel participant (who did not initiate
   settlement) through an off-chain transaction. If is succeeds, then that the

>    funds locked in the ledger channel between the intermediary and the other

Author: Updated.

   participant will be settled off-chain. If not, then this ledger channel,
   along with all its sub-channels and virtual channels will be registered on
   the blockchain for dispute resolution.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/register_generic_register.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

After the challenge duration for register expires, if the channel has

    1. ``No app``, then this state can be settled.
    2. ``An app``, the channel transitions to next sub-phase.

> 3. Progress the channel state on the blockhain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Progress the channel state on the blockchain
```

Author: Updated.

``````````````````````````````````````````````

This is a special sub-phase of register, relevant only for channels that have an
app.

In this sub-phase, the participants can unanimously update (using only their
signatures) the state of the channel after the challenge duration for register
has expired, but before the challenge duration for on-chain progression expires.
Each time the update is proposed on-chain, the app contract validates the
proposed update. If it is valid, the state is updated.

During each update, the challenge duration for on-chain progression is
restarted. The participants can make any number of on-chain progressions on the

> blockchain, before the the challenge duration expires. Once it expires, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blockchain, before the challenge duration expires. Once it expires, the
```

Author: Updated.

.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Hyperledger
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

*********
Protocols
*********

Perun state channel protocols are a set of protocols for setting up a state
channels, doing off-chain transactions on these channels and settling them.

The life cycle of a state channel consists of 4 phases:

1. **Open phase**: Setup up the channel and deposit funds.
2. **Transact phase**: Do off-chain transactions.
3. **Register phase**: Agree on what state should be settled.
4. **Settle phase**: Settle the channel and withdraw funds.

Types of state channels
=======================

Perun protocols support three types of channels:

1. Ledger channel.
2. Sub-channel.
3. Virtual channel.

Life cycle for each of these channels consist of the same four phases described
above. The differences are in how the channels are funded during the ``open

> phase`` and, how they are settled. This layer, where funds will be deposited /

Author: Done. 655746a

> channels will be settled will be referred to as ``parent layer`` in the further

Author: Done. 655746a

discussions.

Ledger channel
--------------

   - Formed between any two parties having sufficient funds in their on-chain
     accounts.
   - The funds are directly deposited into the smart contracts on the
     blockchain.
   - Allows any number of off-chain transactions between the participants.
   - The channel must settled on the blockchain.

Sub-channel
-----------

   - Formed between participants who have a ledger channel established between
     them.
   - Funds are locked on the ledger channel. Hence, no on-chain interaction
     required to setup a sub-channel.
   - Sub-Channel is settled,

     - by unlocking the funds from the ledger channel, if both parties agree on
       the final state of the channel through off-chain transactions; or
     - by settling the parent channel on the blockchain, otherwise.

       In this case, the parent channel and all other sub-channels opened using

>        the parent channel will also be settled on the blockhain.

Reviewer 3: To which indenting does this section belong to? To the subsection or to both? If to subsection, then add it drectly afterwards, otherwise the intendation should be corrected.

Author: It belongs to the subsection. I have moved it directly afterwards. 655746a

Reviewer 3: ok

       parent channels on the blockchain, otherwise.

       In this case, the parent channels and all other sub-channels, virtual
       channels opened using the parent channel will also be settled on the
       blockhain.

.. note:

   From the above descriptions, it can be seen that sub-channels and virtual
   channels require **zero on-chain** interactions under normal circumstances.
   On-chain interactions are required only when the participants do not agree on
   the state to be settled.

In the next section, protocols for each of the four phases in
the life cycle of a state channel are described.

Phases of a state channel
=========================

Open phase
----------

In this phase, the channel is set up for off-chain transactions. Channel
opening consists of two phases:

1. Channel Proposal
2. Funding

The channel proposal protocol is same for all for three types of channels.
However, the ``parent layer`` used for funding and the funding protocol are
different:

1. for ledger channels it is the blockchain,
2. for sub-channels it is the ledger channel between the same participants, and
3. for virtual channels the ``parent layer`` consists of the two ledger

>    channels between each of the channel participants and a common intermediary.

Reviewer 3: does it make sense to add for this text as well an overview picture for better understanding?

Author: Yes, as we discussed in the call, we could add a picture here and move this to a separate page.

   the blockchain.

   Once the common intermediary is notified that one of the parent channels
   holding funds for the virtual channel has been registered on-chain for
   dispute resolution, the intermediary will try to finalize the state of the
   virtual channel with the other channel participant (who did not initiate
   settlement) through an off-chain transaction. If is succeeds, then that the
   funds locked in the ledger channel between the intermediary and the other
   participant will be settled off-chain. If not, then this ledger channel,
   along with all its sub-channels and virtual channels will be registered on
   the blockchain for dispute resolution.

.. image:: ../_generated/concepts/register_generic_register.svg
  :align: Center
  :alt: Image not available

After the challenge duration for register expires, if the channel has

    1. ``No app``, then this state can be settled.
    2. ``An app``, the channel transitions to next sub-phase.

3. Progress the channel state on the blockhain
``````````````````````````````````````````````

This is a special sub-phase of register, relevant only for channels that have an

> app.

Reviewer 3: Where is the app concept described? Is it possible to add a link for further information? Otherwise it is hard to get it, as it is not mentioned before.
